= PolicyMap Wrap

Ruby wrapper around the PolicyMap API. Uses the YAJL library for fast JSON decoding.

== Notes
 
PolicyMap APIs are custom designed, so your mileage may vary depending on your API.

== Usage

Before you can perform searches, you must first setup your PolicyMap credentials:

  PolicyMap::Client.set_credentials(<account_id>, <username>, <password>)
  
There are three types of searches: query, boundary and indicator.
Each search is performed as follows, respectively:

  PolicyMap::Client.query_search(<search_options>)
  PolicyMap::Client.boundary_search(<search_options>)
  PolicyMap::Client.indicator_search(<search_options>)
  
The search options (required and optional) will vary based on the type of search you are performing.

=== PolicyMap::Client.query_search(<search_options>)

A +:search+ type of search is a free form query that *returns an array of hashes (with symbolized keys)* each containing the 
boundary id of each match.

Required search options:

  :query => "some sort of search string (eg, a city name: 'miami')"
  :boundary_types => [:city, :zip]   # Array or single boundary type
  
Required search options for *some* boundary types:
  
  :state => "CA"   # state abbreviation
  :county => "Miami Dade"
  :census_tract => 35525   # Numeric representing a census tract
  
Optional search options:

  :max => 25   # Max number of results in the resultset

=== PolicyMap::Client.boundary_search(<search_options>)

A +:boundary+ search *returns a hash (with symbolized keys)* containing a MultiPolygon.

Required search options:

  :boundary_types => [:city, :zip, :state]   # Can only specify 0 or 1 boundary type 
                                             # if boundary IDs (below) are also specified
  
Other search options:

  :boundary_ids => [1024944, 1024989]   # Array of boundary IDs
  :lat => 33.805094   # Only to be used if boundary_ids (above) is not specified
  :lng => -118.353717

=== PolicyMap::Client.indicator_search(<search_options>)

An +:indicator+ type of search *returns a hash (with symbolized keys)* containing indicator data for the specified boundaries.
  
Required search options:

  :boundary_types => [:city, :zip, :state]   # Can only specify 0 or 1 boundary type 
                                             # if boundary IDs (below) are also specified
  :indicators => [:total_population, :percent_asian]
  
Other search options:

  :boundary_ids => [1024944, 1024989]   # Array of boundary IDs
  :lat => 33.805094   # Only to be used if boundary_ids (above) is not specified
  :lng => -118.353717

=== PolicyMap::Client.containment_search(<search_options>)

A +:containment+ type of search *returns an array of hashes* containing boundary IDs for each of the boundary types contained by the specified boundary ID. 
For example, if the boundary ID is for Alameda County, specifying :city as the boundary_types will reveal all cities within Alameda county.

Required search options:

  :boundary_types => [:city, :zip, :state]   # Can be a single boundary type, an array, or :all
  :boundary_id => 590932   # The ID of the boundary to use as the "container"

=== Available Boundary Types

  :state
  :county
  :city
  :zip
  :census_tract 
  :block_group
  :congressional_district
  :assembly_district
  :senate_district
  :all   # includes all boundary types

=== Available Indicators

Population

  :total_population
  :percent_african_american
  :percent_asian
  :percent_pacific_islander
  :percent_hispanic
  :percent_native_american
  :percent_mixed_race
  :percent_under_18
  :percent_65_or_older
  :percent_foreign_born
  :percent_disabled
  
Education

  :percent_high_school_or_less
  :percent_college_degree
  :percent_graduate_degree
  
Housing
  
  :median_home_value
  :median_rent
  :percent_moved_in_since_1990
  :percent_homeowners
  :vacancy_rate
  
Income

  :median_household_income
  :poverty_rate
  :percent_households_wo_car
  :average_vehicles_per_household
  :percent_who_commute_to_work_using_public_transit
  :unemployment_rate
  
Industry Concentrations
  
  :independent_artists
  :performing_arts_and_spectator_sports
  :movie_and_sound_industries
  :mueseums_and_historical_sites
  :publishing_industries
  :broadcasting
  :other_info_services
  
Other

  :all   # includes all indicators

== Dependencies

PolicyMap Wrap stands on the shoulders of giants:

* {yajl-ruby}[http://github.com/brianmario/yajl-ruby] (Ruby wrapper around the great {yajl}[http://lloyd.github.com/yajl])
* {curb}[http://github.com/taf2/curb] (Ruby wrapper around the great {libcurl}[http://curl.haxx.se/])

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Gemini SBS. See LICENSE for details.

== Authors

* {Mauricio Gomes}[http://github.com/mgomes]
